# Music-Projects

This repository contains music pieces that I have composed using Max, a visual programming language for music and multimedia, and JavaScript. I used Max for the first two pieces I composed that are titled "Project1" and "Project2" respectively in this repository. For the third piece, which is titled "Project3," I used the Tone.js framework and p5.js JavaScript library. Overall, my experience with audio programming and creating these pieces has been very fun and worthwile.

### Project 1

For this project, I was interested in creating a piece with drum beats, a bass line, and some chords using Max. I first started working on creating the drum beats where I used delay objects, noise~ objects, and line~ objects to create a bass drum sound and a hi-hat sound. In order to create the bass line, I used MIDI inputs and cycle~ objects. I added some oscillators as well to change the tone. I also used multiple cycle~ objects to produce the chords and line~ objects to make sure it was switching between the chords. In order to start the piece, the user simply needs to click the big blue and pink button.

### Project 2

For this project, I continued using Max but decided to additionally utilize a new programming language in the Max environment called Odot. Odot is implemented with Open Sound Control bundles as its primary data structure that exists as a library package for Max. I used Odot primarily to make this piece more interactive and also to mess around with some of the musical components such as harmonicity and decay. The goal of this piece was to create my own unique timbre using additive synthesis. In order to do so, I used many resonant filters by using the reson~ and poly~ objects in Max. The final product was a bell-like sound that played the main melody which was preceded by some chords I made using cycle~ objects. The piece is played by pressing certain buttons on the laptop's keyboard. This is where Odot comes in because each key is mapped to a certain MIDI note that is routed to a kslider object via Odot. This produces the specific melody of the piece. 

### Project 3

For this project, I was interested in exploring and utilizing the Tone.js JavaScript framework to compose my next piece as well as utilizing the p5.js library to create an interactive animation that goes along with the piece. Specifically, Tone.js is a Web Audio framework for creating interactive music in the browser with a lot of built-in objects that allowed me to create my own synthesizers, effects, and more. I used the MembraneSynth object as well as the MetalSynth object to make my drum beats. I was able to modify the parameters of these objects to get a nice bass, cymbal, and kick drum sound. I was able to used a Chebyshev waveshaper to create a distortion effect for the bass line of the piece. I used the PolySynth object that was connected to the chorus effect to create some chords for the piece and utilized counters to switch between chords. I also used a synthesizer for the melody of the piece. For the animation, I used a simple ellipse object from the p5.js library that became bigger and smaller based on the part of the piece that was being played. I hope to be able to explore the Tone.js framework and p5.js library more to create more interactive music compositions.  
